This project “Student Record System” provides us a simple interface for maintainance of student record.It can be used by educational institutes or colleges to maintain the records of students easily. Achieving this objective is difficult using a manual system as the information is scattered, can be redundant and collecting relevant information may be very time consuming. All these problems are solved using this project. Throughout the project the focus has been on presenting information in an easy and intelligible manner. The project is very useful for those who want to know about Student Information Management Systems and want to develop softwares/websites based on the same concept.
The project provides facilities like  profile creation of students thus reducing paperwork and automating the record genreration process in an educational institution.


TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Declaration
2. Synopsis of project
3. System Requirement Specification
4. Technology overview
5. Project description
6. Snapshots
7. Scope of project
8. Contribution in project
9. Bibliography

SYNOPSIS
Abstract
Student Record System can be used by education institutes to
maintain the records of students easily. Achieving this objective is difficult using a
manual system as the information is scattered, can be redundant and collecting
relevant information may be very time consuming. All these problems are solved
using this project.
Name of the Project: Student Record System
Objectives:
 Maintenance of student records
 Searching student records
Users Views:
 Administrator
 Student
Platform
Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows

Software Requirements:
 PHP 5.0
 APACHE HTTP Server
 Dreamweaver,FrontPage for Front End Programming
 Microsoft Windows or Linux

Hardware Requirements:
 Intel Pentium IV processor or equivalent or higher
 512 MB Ram or Higher
 20 GB HDD or Higher
 Network Connectivity 

SOFTWARE REQUIRMENT SPECIFICATION
1. Introduction
1.1 Purpose:
The objective of Student information System is to allow the administrator of
any organization to edit and find out the personal details of a student and
allows the student to keep up to date his profile .It’ll also facilitate keeping all
the records of students, such as their id, name, mailing address, phone
number, DOB etc. So all the information about an student will be available in a
few seconds.
Overall, it’ll make Student Information Management an easier job for the
administrator and the student of any organization.
The main purpose of this SRS document is to illustrate the requirements of
the project Student information System and is intended to help any
organization to maintain and manage its student’s personal data.

 1.2 Scope :
Without a Student information System, managing and maintaining the
details of the student is a tedious job for any organization.
Student Information system will store all the details of the students
including their background information, educational qualifications, personal
details and all the information related to their resume .
Login module: Login module will help in authentication of user accounts
.Users who have valid login id and password can only login into their
respective accounts.
Search module: Suppose there are hundreds of students and from this we
have to search a particular student and we know the name of the student .In
manual system it is a tedious task though we know the name of the student,
but using this module we can easily search the student by specifying the
name of the student in the search criteria. Thus this module will help the
administrator in searching the student with various criteria easily.
Registration Module and Account Management: This module will help the
student get registered from anywhere if internet is present .This module will
really simplify the task of on paper registration. Also after successful
registration the user can update information and change their password as
and when required.
User Management: This module will help the administrator in
enabling/disabling a user account and updating user information as required.
Purpose of project is to maintain details of the students such as storing
information about:
 Student id
 Student password
 Student name
 Student DOB
 Student mailing address
 Gender
 Registration date
 Student status
 Contact no
 Qualification
 City
 Resume
 Image
 1.3 Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations :
 Personal details: Details of student such as user id, phone number,
address, image, resume, e-mail address etc.
• Contact details: Details of contact associated with the student.

• SRS: System requirement Specification
• WWW: World Wide Web
• Administrator: A Login Id representing the user is an administrator &
 can access all the records details
1.4 Technologies :
• PHP.
• MYSQL
• JAVASCRIPT
• HTML
• CSS
1.5 Overview:
The rest of this SRS is organized as follows:
Section 2 gives an overall description of the software. It gives what level of
proficiency is expected of the user, some general constraints while making the
software.
Section 3 gives specific requirements which the software is expected to
deliver. Some performance requirements and constraints are also given and
deal with other Non-Functional Requirements.
Section 4 deals with External Interface Requirements like Hardware and
Software Interface.
2. OVERALL DESCRIPTION
2.1 Product Perspective :

The website Student Information System is aimed towards recording a
considerable number of student records and needs online assistance for
managing records of students. Website should be user-friendly, ‘quick to
learn’ and reliable website for the above purpose.
Student Information System is intended to be a stand-alone product and
should not depend on the availability of other website. The system will also
have an administrator who has full-fledged rights with regards to performing
all actions related to control and management of the website.
2.2 Product Functions :
There are two different users who will be using this product:
 Administrator who can view and edit the details of any students.
 Students who can view their details as well as they can edit their
details.
The features that are available to the Administrator are:
 An Administrator can login into the system and perform any of the
available operations.
 Can enable/disable student.
 Can edit student information to the database.
 Can make search for a specific student.
 Can access all the details of the student.
The features that are available to the student are:
 Student can login into the system and can perform any of the available options.
 Can view his/her personal details.
 Can edit his/her personal details
 Can upload his/her resume.
 Can upload his/her image.
2.3 User Classes and Characteristics :
There are mainly two kinds of users for the product.
The users include:
 Administrator
 Student
2.4 Operating Environment :
The product can run on any browser.
2.5 Constraints :
 Every user must be comfortable using computer.
 All operations are in English so user must have basic knowledge of
English.